all right guys let's get started with
the next installment of our exciting
journey into computer security uh today
we're actually going to talk about web
security web security is actually one of
my favorite topics to talk about because
it really exposes you to the true
horrors of the world it's very easy to
think as a student that everything will
be great when you graduate today's
lecture and the next lecture will be
telling you that's in fact not the case
uh everything is terrible so what is the
web well back in the old days the web
was actually much simpler than it is
today right so clients which is to say
the browsers couldn't really do anything
with respect to displaying Rich
interactive content basically they could
just get static images static text and
that was about it now the server side
was a little bit more interesting right
because even if there were static
content on the client side maybe the
server was talking to databases maybe it
was talking to other machines on the
server side things like that and so for
a very long time the notion of web
security basically meant looking at what
the server was doing right and up to
this point in this class we've
essentially taken that approach so we
looked at things like uh buffer overflow
attacks right so how clients can uh
trick the server into doing things the
server doesn't want to do we've also
looked at the uh okws server um looked
at how we can do some privilege
isolation there uh so we've sort of to
this point sort of looked at security
through the history that was actually uh
through through the experiences that
were actually experienced by the
security researchers themselves but now
uh actually the browser is very
interesting to think about in terms of
security because the
browser is super super
complicated these days right so now
there's all kinds of insane Dynamic
stuff that the browser can actually do
so for example you've probably heard of
JavaScript right so JavaScript now
allows pages to execute client side code
right to turn complete can do all kinds
of wacky stuff there's the Dom model
which we'll talk about uh in more depth
later today the Dom model essentially
allows JavaScript code to dynamically
change uh the visual appearance of the
page uh fiddle with things like uh font
stylings and stuff like that uh there's
uh XML HTTP
requests these are basically a way for
uh JavaScript to asynchronously fetch
content from servers you may also hear
XML HTP requests referred to as uh
Ajax a synchronous JavaScript fetching
uh there are things like websockets this
is actually a recently introduced API so
websockets essentially allow full duplex
communication between clients and
servers right communication going both
ways we've got uh all kinds of
multimedia
support so for example uh we have things
like uh the video
tag which allows a a web page to play
video without using a flash app that it
can actually just Play that video
natively uh there's also a GE
location so now a web page can actually
determine physically where you are for
example if you're running a web page on
a smartphone uh the the browser can
actually access your GPS unit if you're
accessing a page on a desktop browser it
can actually look at your Wi-Fi
connection and connect to Google's Wi-Fi
geolocation service to figure out where
exactly you are that's kind of insane
right but now web pages can do that kind
of stuff and so uh We've also talked
about things like uh knack for
example which allows browsers to run
native code so there's many many other
features that I haven't mentioned here
but suffice it to say that the browser
is now incredibly complicated and so
what does this mean for uh from the
perspective of security well basically
uh it means that we're screwed right the
threat surface for that right there is
enormous and Loosely speaking you know
when you're thinking about security you
can think of a graph that sort of looks
like this so you've got um you know the
likelihood uh of
correctness and then you've got the
number of features that you
have and so you know if this graph
starts up here at 100 well of course we
never even started at 100 even with very
simple code code because we can't even
do bubble sort
right and so essentially that curve
looks something like this and web
browsers are right over here right and
so as we'll discuss today there's all
kinds of wacky security bugs that are
rising constantly and as soon as the old
ones are fixed new ones are arising
because people keep adding these new
features right often times without
thinking about what the security
implications of those features are um
and so if you think about uh what a web
application is these days well it's this
client thing and it's This Server thing
and a web application now spans multiple
programming languages multiple machines
multiple Hardware programs right you
could be using a Firefox on Windows then
it's going to go talk to machine in the
cloud that's running Linux it's running
the Apache server um you know maybe it's
running an arm chip as opposed to you
know x86 or something like that maybe
the other way around so long story short
there's all of these problems of
composition right there's all of these
software layers and all these Hardware
layers that all can impact Security in
some way but it's also complicate it's
not quite clear how we can make sense of
the entire whole so for example um one
common problem with the web is this
problem of uh parsing
context so as an example suppose that
you had uh something in a page that
looked like this you declare script
tag inside that script tag you declare a
variable there's some string here and
let's say that this string comes from uh
an untrusted
party either the user or another machine
or something like that and then you
close that script
tag right so this stuff is trusted this
stuff is trusted this stuff is not
trusted so can anybody figure out why
there might be some problems here if we
take this untrusted string and put it in
there you can have a closing quotes Mark
in the cont
right right exactly so the problem is
that there are multiple contexts that
this entrusted code could sort of uh
break into so for example if the
entrusted code had you know a double
quote here now we've close the
definition of this JavaScript string
right so now we're out of the JavaScript
string context and we into the regular
JavaScript execution context so then the
attacker can just put a regular
JavaScript code here and go to town
right alternatively the attacker could
could uh just put uh a
closing script tag here right and then
uh at that point uh the attacker can
sort of get out of the JavaScript
context right and then get into the HTML
context maybe to find some new uh HTML
nodes or something like that right and
so you see this problem of composition
all over the place in the web because
there's so many different languages and
runtimes we we to think about HTML CSS
JavaScript maybe MySQL on the server
side so on and so forth so this is a
just a classic example of why you have
to do something called content
standardization so whenever you get
untrusted input from someone you
actually need to analyze it very
carefully to make sure that it's not
being used as a vector for an
attack so another reason why web
security is so uh tricky is because the
web specifications are incredibly long
they're incredibly tedious they're
incredibly boring and they're often
inconsistent and so by I mean the web
specifications I mean things like you
know the definition of jpeg the
definition of CSS the definition of HTML
these documents are like the size of the
EU Constitution right and equally easy
to understand right and so what ends up
happening is that the browser vendors
they see all these specs and they
essentially say okay thanks for that I'm
going to do something that somewhat
resembles what these specs look like
then they call it a day and they laugh
about it with their friends okay so what
ends up happening is that these
specifications end up being sort of like
these vague aspirational documents that
don't always accurately reflect what
real browsers are doing and if you want
to understand the horror of this you can
go to the site called quirks mod.org I
mean don't go to the site if you want to
be happy but you can go there and
actually documents all of these terrible
inconsistencies that browsers have with
respect to you know what happens when
the user hits a key press right there
should just be one key press event
that's generated you are so wrong so go
to quirks mod.org you can check that out
and see what's going on so anyways so in
this uh lecture we're going to focus on
the client side of the web application
in particular we're going to look at how
we can isolate content from different
web providers that has to coexist
somehow on the same machine and the same
browser and so at a high level there's
this fundamental difference between the
way you traditionally think of a desktop
application and the way you think of a
web application right abstractly
speaking most of the desktop
applications that you use you can think
of as coming from a single principle
right so word comes from Microsoft and
you know maybe Turbo Tax comes from Mr
Mrs Turbo Tax so on and so forth but
when you look at a web application
something that looks to you uh visually
as a single application is actually
composed of a bunch of different content
from a bunch of different people right
so you go to CNN it looks like it's all
in one tab but each piece of the uh each
of those visual things that you see May
in fact come from someone different so
let's just uh look at a very uh simple
example here so let's say that we were
looking at uh the following site so
HTTP uh food.com
and we're just looking at uh
index.html
so you know you look at your uh browser
tab what might you see so one thing that
you might see is uh an advertisement so
you might see an advertisement in the
form of a gif and maybe that was
downloaded from uh
ads.com
then you also might see uh let's say an
analytics
library and maybe this comes from uh
google.com and so these libraries are
very popular for doing things like
tracking how many people have loaded
your page looking to see where people uh
click on things to see like which parts
of your site are the most interesting
for people to interact with soone and so
forth and you might also have another
JavaScript library let's say it's uh
jQuery and maybe that comes uh
from uh
cdn.com so some content distribution
Network that food.com runs jQuery is a
very popular library for doing things
like a guey manipulation things like
that so a lot of popular websites have
jQuery although they serve it from
different places uh then in this page
you might see some uh
HTML and here's where you might see
stuff like uh you know buttons for the
user to click on uh text
input so on and so
forth right so that's just raw HTML on
the page uh and then you might see uh
what they
call
inline a
JavaScript from
food.com and by inlines mean uh you know
know you have a script
tag and then you have a closed script
tag and then you just have some
JavaScript code included in there
directly right that's as opposed to
where you say something like uh you know
script and
then the source equals some thing that
lives on some server remotely right so
this is what's called inline JavaScript
this is what's referred to as an
externally defined Javascript file so
you might have some inline JavaScript
there from from food.com and the other
thing that you might have in here is
actually uh a
frame so we'll talk about frames a bit
more uh in a little bit think of a frame
is almost like a separate JavaScript
Universe okay it's a little bit
equivalent to like a process and Unix so
you know maybe this Frame here uh maybe
this guy belongs to uh
https uh
facebook.com uh like
this.
HTML and so maybe in here we have some
uh inline
JavaScript from
Facebook and then maybe we also have uh
some image so you know f.
JPEG that comes from uh https
facebook.com okay so this is what uh a
single tab might have in its contents
but as I just mentioned all this can
potentially come from all these
different principles so there's a bunch
of interesting questions that we can ask
about an application that looks like
this so for example can this analytics
code from google.com uh actually access
JavaScript state that resides in the
jQuery code right so to First
approximation maybe that seems like a
bad idea because the these two pieces of
code came from different places but then
again maybe it's actually okay because
presumably food.com brought both of
these libraries in so that they could
work with each other right so who knows
another question you might have is uh
you know can the analytics code here
actually interact with the text inputs
here so for example can the analytics
code Define EV vent handlers right so a
little bit of background on JavaScript
JavaScript is a single-threaded uh vent
driven model so basically there's just
in each frame there's just an event Loop
that's just constantly pulling events
key presses Network events timers and
stuff like that and then seeing if there
are any handlers associated with those
events and if so it fires them right so
who should be able to to Define event
handlers for this HTML should google.com
be able to do it it's not from food.com
so maybe maybe not right another
question too is what's the relationship
between this Facebook frame here and the
larger frame right the Facebook frame is
an https right secure food is at HTTP
right non-secure so how should these two
things be able to interact so basically
to answer these questions uh browsers
use a security model called the uh same
origin
policy and so there's sort of this vague
goal right because a lot of things with
respect to web security are kind of
vague because nobody knows what they're
doing but the basic idea is two websites
[Music]
uh should not be able to tamper with
each
other unless they want
to and so defining what
tampering means was actually easier when
the web was simpler right but as we keep
adding these new apis it's more and more
difficult to understand what this non-
tampering goal means so for example it's
obviously bad if two websites which
don't trust each other can sort of
override on each other's visual display
right that seems like an obviously bad
thing uh it seems like an Obviously good
thing if two websites which want to
collaborate are able to somehow exchange
data uh in a safe way right so you can
think of mashup sites you may have heard
of so sometimes you'll see these things
on the Internet it's like someone takes
Google Map data and then takes you know
the location of food trucks then you
have this amazing mashup that allows you
to eat cheaply and avoid salmonella
right so that seems like a thing you
should be able to do but how exactly do
we enable that type of composition uh
then there's other things that are kind
of hard to say so for example if
JavaScript code comes from origin X and
it's inside of a page that's from origin
Y how exactly should that code and that
content
compose so the strategy that the same
origin policy
uses uh it can be roughly uh described
as follows so uh each
resource is assigned uh An
Origin which will uh discuss uh in a
second and essentially uh JavaScript
code can only access
uh resources from its own
origin and so this is the high level
strategy the same origin policy uses but
the devil's in the details and there
just a ton of exceptions which we're
going to look into uh in a second but
first of all before we proceed let's
define uh what an origin is so An
Origin is basic
basically
uh Network protocol scheme plus uh host
name uh plus a
port so for example we could have
something like
HTTP uh
food.com and then maybe it's index.html
right so the scheme here is
HTTP the host name is
f.com and the port is 80 now the port in
this case is implicit right the port is
the is the port on the server side that
the client uses to connect right so if
you see a URL from the HTTP scheme and
there's no Port that's explicitly uh
supplied then implicitly that Port is 80
okay so then if we look at something
like um https
once again
food.com
index.html so these two URLs have the
same host name right but they have
actually uh different schemes right htps
versus HTTP and also here the port is
implicitly uh 443 right that's the
default htps Port right so these two
URLs have different Origins and then as
a final example you know if you had a
site like
http.com
then you can use this uh colon notation
here uh
8181 you know whatever these things
Beyond here don't matter with respect to
the uh the same origin policy uh at
least with respect to this very simple
example here we see that we have a
scheme of HTTP a host name of uh bar.com
and here we've explicitly specified the
port so in this case it's it's a non
default Port of 8181 so does that make
sense it's pretty
straightforward okay so this is
basically what an origin is Loosely
speaking you can think of an origin as a
uid in Unix with the frame being Loosely
considered as like a process
so there are four basic
ideas uh behind the browser's uh
implement mentation of the same origin
policy so first idea
is each
origin uh
has client side
resources and so what are examples of
those resources uh things like uh
cookies now you can think of cookies as
a very simple way to implement state in
a stateless protocol like HTTP uh
basically a cookie is like a tiny file
that's associated with each origin we'll
talk about the specifics of this in a
bit but the basic idea is that when the
browser sends a request to a particular
uh website it includes any cookies that
the client has for that website right
you can use things uh you can use these
cookies for things like implementing um
you know password remembering maybe if
you're going to an e-commerce site you
can remember stuff about a user's uh you
know shop carton these cookies so on and
so forth so cookies are one thing that
each uh origin can be associated with um
also you can think of uh Dom storage as
another one of these resources this is a
fairly new interface but think of Dom
storage is just a a key value store
right so Dom storage allows An Origin to
say for this given key which is a string
let me associate it with this given
value which is also a
string uh another thing that uh
is associated with an origin is a
JavaScript
namespace right so that JavaScript
namespace defines you know what
functions and what interfaces are
available um to that origin right some
of those interfaces are built in like
let's say the string prototype and stuff
like that and then an application might
actually fill the JavaScript namespace
with some other content um there's also
this thing called the Dom
tree so Dom is a short for document
object model and the Dom tree is
essentially a JavaScript reflection of
the HTML in a page right so you can
imagine that um you know the Dom tree
has a node for the topmost HTML node in
the in the uh HTML and then it's going
to have a node for uh the head
tag then it's going to have a node for
the body
tag right so on and so forth so the way
that a lot of uh Dynamic uh web pages
are made Dynamic is the JavaScript code
can access this data structure in
JavaScript that mirrors the HTML content
so you can imagine an animation takes
place by changing some of these nodes
down here to implement you know
different organizations of various tags
right so that's what the Dom Tre
is uh there's also um you know a visual
display area
although we'll see that the visual
display area actually interacts very
strangely with the same origin policy um
so on and so forth so at high level each
origin has access to some set of client
side resources of this of these types
right does that make
sense and then uh the second big idea is
that uh each
frame uh gets the origin
of its
URL right so as I mentioned before a
frame is roughly analogous to a process
uh in Unix it's kind of like a name
space that Aggregates a bunch of other
different
resources so the third
idea is that
Scripts so JavaScript code uh
execute with uh the
authority of uh its frames
origin okay so what that means is that
you know f.com Imports a Javascript file
from bar.com well that Javascript file
is going to be able to act with the
authority of
food.com and so loosely speaking this is
sort of similar to you know if you were
in the Unix world to run a binary that
sort of belonged in someone else's home
directory right that thing would sort of
execute with your privileges
there and the fourth
thing is uh there's passive content so
by passive content I mean things like
images for example right or uh CSS files
or things like that these are things
which we don't think of as having
executable code so passive content uh
gets zero Authority from the
browser so that kind of makes sense uh
we'll see why this fourth thing is a
little bit subtle in a second so going
back to our example here so we see for
example um that the Google analytics
script right and the jQuery script they
can access all kinds of uh stuff in
food.com so for example they can read
and write um cookies they can do things
like attach event handlers to buttons
here uh so on and so forth um if we look
at the Facebook frame and its
relationship to the larger food.com
frame then we see they're from different
Origins right because they have uh
different schemes here they have
different uh host names
right different ports so what this means
is that they are to a first
approximation isolated right now they
can communicate if they both opt into it
using um this interface called uh post
message so post message uh allows two
different frames to exchange
asynchronous immutable U messages with
with each other so think of this
facility is allowing you know Facebook
to try to send uh a string not a
reference a string up to the enclosing
food.com frame now note that if uh
food.com doesn't want to receive those
messages it doesn't have to right so
this has to be opt in uh from both sides
to get this thing to
work so note that uh the JavaScript code
here in the Facebook frame it cannot
issue an XML HTTP request to uh the
food.com server right that's once again
because Network destinations also have
these Origins that are associated with
them and so because uh facebook.com does
not have the same origin as food.com it
can't asynchronously fetch stuff from it
via xmlhttp
requests and so uh the last thing we can
look at we can see okay we've got an
image up here from ads.com this is rule
number four over there so it seems
pretty straightforward this is an image
it has no executable code so clearly the
browser should give it no Authority now
that seems kind of like a dumb thing
like why are you even talking about
images having Authority or not having
Authority it seems obvious that images
shouldn't be able to do stuff well this
is security class right so clearly there
is Mischief that hides in uh statement
number four up there so what happens if
the browser incorrectly uh parses an
object and
misattributed these before you know it's
something like uh you know text. HTML or
you know image. jpeg things like that
it's like a mime type and so old
versions of iie used to do um something
that they thought was going to be
helpful for you right so sometimes what
web servers will do is they will
misattribute the file extension of an
object right so you can imagine that a
web server that's been configured
incorrectly it might attach a HTML
suffix to something that's really an
image right or it might attach attach a
JPEG suffix to something that's really
HTML so what iie would do back in the
olden days is try to help you out right
so iie would go out it would go fetch
this resource and it would say okay this
resource uh claims to be of some type
according to its file name extension
right but then it would actually look at
the first 256 bytes of what was in that
that object and if it found certain
magic values in there that indicated
that there was a different type for that
object it would just say hey I found
something uh cool here the web server
misidentified the object let me just
treat the object like its type that I
found in these first 256 bytes and then
everybody's a winner right because I've
helped the web server developer out
because now you know their website's
going to uh it's going to render
properly and the users going to like
this because they get to unlock this
content that would have been garbage
before right but this is clearly a
vulnerability right because suppose that
a page includes some passive content
right like let's say an image from a
domain that's controlled by the attacker
now from the perspective of the victim
page it's saying even if this attacker
site is is evil it's passive content it
can't do anything right like it wors it
displays like an unfortunate image but
it can't actually access any code
because passive content gets zero
Authority right but what would happen is
that iie uh could sniff this image the
first 256 bytes and the attacker could
intentionally put HTML and JavaScript in
there right so what happened is that the
victim site brings in what it thinks is
an image IE coerces it into HTML and
JavaScript and then executes that code
right in the context of uh that
enclosing page right so does that attack
make sense right and so this is uh sort
of an example of how complex browsers
are and how adding even a very sort of
well-intentioned feature can cause these
very uh sort of subtle security bugs
right so let's now uh sort of dig down
and take a deeper look at how the
browser uh secures various resources so
uh let's look at um
frames and window
objects so frames represent these sort
of separate JavaScript universes that we
discussed over here uh I mean
implementation wise a frame with respect
to JavaScript is is is an instance of a
Dom node right so I forget where I drew
oh yeah this Dom node up here so you
know the frame would exist as a Dom node
object somewhere in this hierarchy
that's that's visible to JavaScript uh
in JavaScript the window object is
actually an alias for the global name
space it's kind of this wacky idea but
like if you define This Global variable
named X you can also access it via the
name window dox okay uh so basically
frames and window objects are very
powerful references for you to be able
to access and they contain pointers to
each other right the frame contains a
pointer to the associated window object
and vice versa um so these two things
are essentially equivalently powerful so
frame and window objects uh they uh
get the
origin
of the frames
URL
or right because there's always an or in
web security uh they get uh they can get
a
suffix of uh the
original uh the original uh domain name
the original origin so for
example uh a frame could start off
having an initial origin x.y
z.com right and so let's ignore the uh
the scheme and the protocol for a second
so initially uh the page can start off
like this it can then intentionally say
I want to set my origin to be y. z.com a
suffix of that right and the way that it
indicates this is by um doing an
assignment to the special
document uh. domain value
that's accessible via JavaScript so it
can set document. domain explicitly to
this right here right and that's
allowable because this guy is a suffix
of that guy and then similarly it could
also set document. domain to z.com and
effectively reset its origin like that
now what it cannot do is it cannot do
something like setting document do
domain to uh
a.y. z.com um that's disallowed because
this is not a this is not a proper
suffix of the original um origin and
also it cannot set its suffix to Doom so
does anyone have any theories about why
this is a bad
idea right exactly so people are
laughing because clearly this is going
to bring out the apocalypse right so if
it does this and this means that the
site could somehow um you know be able
to impact cookies or things like that in
anycom site which would be pretty
devastating ating the motivation for why
these types of things are allowable is
because presumably these uh Origins have
some type of pre-existing trust
relationship so this seems to be vaguely
okay whereas this would seem to be bad
so slits on any dot or actually any
point for example for xy. zz.com can you
change that to z.com no so it's it's on
every
dot is there a reason that it wasn't
made so that you could specify any some
do but the
uh but but somehow they they had to
agree on where the information was
coming from so like you you said some
kind of I want to consider all of these
the same origin as me and so any of can
impact me and then you need this need in
order for me to impact them as well so
me anything that's impct me and then you
both need to to agree Yeah It's Tricky
so so there's a couple different answers
to that so first of all people were very
worried about this attack here and so
they wanted to uh sort of make the
domain manipulation language be at least
somewhat easy to understand um so they
don't sort of allow more broke settings
I'll get to one thing in a second which
kind of allows what you're talking about
but only with respect to uh domain s
physics so I'll get to that one second
and another thing to mention too is that
the post message interface does allow
arbitrary domains to communicate with
each other if they both opt into it so
in practice people use post message to
do cross domain communication if they
can't sort of uh set their Origins to be
the same using these tricks
here so okay so so yeah so so browsers
can can strain uh their or more like
widen I should say their domain to these
suffixes of the original domain um and
there's also this little interesting
Quirk here which is that browsers
actually distinguish between a document.
domain value that has been written and
one that has not been written okay and
there's a subtle reason for this I'll
get into in a second so basically uh two
frames can access each
other if one of two things is true right
the first thing is uh both of the
frames set document.domain
to the same value
and the other way that uh two frames can
access each other is that uh
neither of those
frames has changed document
domain and of course uh both values have
to match so and uh there's a value
match so the reason for this is a bit
subtle but the basic idea is that these
two rules uh prevent a domain from being
attacked by one of its own buggy or
malicious
subdomains okay so imagine that you have
uh you know the domain x.y do
z.com and then imagine uh that it's
trying to attack y
z.com right so this guy up here is um
buggy or
evil so what this guy could try to do is
actually shorten his domain to be y.
z.com and then start messing around with
JavaScript state or cookies or stuff
like that here right and so basically
what these two rules over here will say
is that if y. z.com doeses not want to
actually allow anyone to interact with
it it will never change it document.
domain value right so that when this uh
frame up here does shorten it the
browser will say aha you've shortened it
you have not there's a match here in
terms of the values but this person
hasn't indicate that they want to opt in
into this type of
chicanery so does that make
sense okay so that is basically uh how
frames work with respect to the same
origin policy
uh so then we can look at uh how are Dom
nodes treated so Dom nodes uh it's
pretty straightforward for Dom nodes so
Dom nodes basically get the origin of
their surrounding frame makes sense uh
then we can look at cookies cookies are
uh
complicated and a bit tricky so cookies
they have uh a
domain and they have a
path so for example you can imagine a
cookie uh might have the be associated
with the following information so
asterisk mit.edu and then 6 do
858 right so you've got sort of this
domain thing sitting here and then
you've got this path thing sitting over
here and so note that uh this domain can
be uh possibly complete suffix of the
Page's current domain so you can play
somewhat similar tricks as we had over
there uh and note that this path here
can actually just be set to um just to
the slash with nothing else there which
indicates uh that all paths in the
domain should be able to have access to
this cookie here but in this case we
actually have one of these non-empty
paths and so whoever sets this cookie
right basically gets to choose what the
domain and the path look like and it can
actually be Set uh by the server or can
be set on the client side so on the
client side you can basically write to
um this do uh JavaScript object called
document.cookie
and there's sort of this Byzantine
format that you can use to indicate all
these pass and things like that but it's
vied to say it can be done um so
JavaScript can set cookies like this and
also the server can actually set cookies
um on HTP responses when they come back
over the wire um so you can basically
just use uh the set cookie header if
you're the server to set some of these
things um and know that there's also uh
a secure
flag that you can set uh in the cookie
to indicate that it's an https cookie
right meaning that HTTP content should
not be able to access that
cookie and so that's the basic idea uh
behind cookies um now note that whenever
the browser generates a request to a
particular web server it's going to
include all of the matching cookies in
that request so there's a bit little bit
of sort of like string matching
algorithms that to take place to figure
out you know what are all the exact
cookies that should be sent to the
server for particular request because
you can have all of these weird sort of
suffix domain things going on and so on
and so forth but that's the basic uh
idea uh behind
cookies so does that all make
sense FR
access yeah so frames can do that but
it's you know it's dependent on you know
how the document that domain has been
set and then it's dependent on you know
what the cookie domain and path have
been set so yeah so after a bunch of
these sort of string uh sort of
comparisons yes frames can access each
other's cookies if all those tests
pass okay so so yes that leads me into
the next question so we're trying to
figure out how um different frames can
access each other's cookies so you know
what's the problem what would be the
problem if we allowed arbitrary frames
to write arbitrary people's cookies so
what do you
think well it would be bad to I it to
say right the reason it would be bad is
because once again these cookies allow
the uh the client side of the
application to store a per user data
right so you can imagine that uh if an
attacker could control or override a
user's cookie the attacker could
actually for example change that cookie
for a Gmail to make uh the user log into
the attacker's Gmail account right and
so when the user logged into the
attacker's Gmail account um any email
that the uh user typed in could be read
by the attacker for example you could
also imagine that uh someone could
tamper with your amazon.com cookie you
know put all kinds of embarrassing
ridiculous stuff in your shopping cart
perhaps or you know so on and so forth
so cookies are actually a very important
resource to protect and a lot of of web
uh security attacks uh try to steal that
cookie right to do various kinds of evil
so here's another interesting question
with respect to cookies so let's say
that um you've got the site that's
coming from
uh fu.
co.uk so should this to the site from uh
this host name be allowed to set a
cookie for
co.uk right so this is a bit subtle
because you know according to the rules
that we've discussed before a site from
here should be able to you know shorten
its domain right set a cookie for this
and that all seems to be legal now of
course as a human we think this is kind
of suspicious right because as a human
we actually understand that this is
morally speaking a single Atomic domain
right morally speaking this is
equivalent tot right the British got
screwed that to have a dot in there but
that's not their fault history is unfair
right so morally speaking this is a
single domain right so you actually have
to have some special infrastructure to
get the cookie setting rules to work out
correctly right so essentially Mozilla
uh they they have this website called
um publix.org
and basically
what this website contains are lists of
these rules for you know how cookies and
Origins and domain should be shrunk
given that you know some things might
have dots in them but actually they
should be treated as a single um sort of
atomic thing right and so actually when
your browser is figuring out you know
how it should do all these various
cookie manipulations uh it's actually
going to consult this site or it's going
to have this baked in somehow or
something like that to make sure that
you know food. co.uk can't actually just
shorten its domain to co.uk and then you
know perform some
chicanery so once again this is very
subtle and a lot of the interesting uh
web security issues that we find come
about because a lot of the original
infrastructure was designed just for the
English language you know for asky text
or something like this it wasn't
designed for you know an international
um Community right and so as the
internet became more popular and people
said hey we made some pretty big design
decisions here at the beginning we
should actually make this use people who
don't you know use our narrow
understanding of what language means you
run into all these crazy problems and
I'll give you another example of one of
those later in the lecture um so does
this this all make
sense okay um so with respect
to um XML HTTP
responses so how are
they treated by uh the same origin
policy
so by default uh JavaScript can only
generate one of these if it's going to
its origin server okay however there is
this new uh interface called cross
origin request or
cores right so this is uh same
origin unless the
server has enabled this course thing
and so basically this adds a new HTTP
response header uh called
Access
Control allow
origin right so let's say that
JavaScript from food.com wants to make
an xmlhttp request to bar.com right so
that's cross origin as we've described
in the rule so far so if the server in
bar.com wants to allow this it will
return in its HTP response this header
here that's going to say yes I allow for
example um you know
f.com to uh send me these cross origin
uh XML HTP requests right the server in
bar.com could actually say no it could
refuse the request right in which case
the browser would sort of fail the XML
HTP request um so this is sort of a new
thing that's that's come up in large
part because of these mashup
applications this mean for somehow um
applications from different developers
in different domains to be able to share
data in some type of constrained way
right so this could also be asterisk
over here if anybody can fetch the data
cross origin so on and so
forth so I think that's pretty
straightforward um so I mean there's a
bunch of other resources we could look
at
um for example images so a frame can
load images from any origin that it
desires but it can't actually inspect
the bits in that image right because
somehow the same origin policy says that
you know having different Origins
directly inspect each other's content
that's a bad thing so the frame can't
inspect the bits but it can actually
infer things like what the size of the
image is right because it can actually
see like you know where the other Dom
nodes in that page have been placed for
example so this is another one of these
weird instances where the same origin
policy is sensibly trying to prevent all
information leakage but it can't
actually prevent all of it because
embedding inherently reveals some types
of information uh CSS has a similar uh
story to images so a frame can embed CSS
from uh any origin however uh it cannot
directly inspect the text inside that
CSS file if it's from a different origin
but it can actually imply what the CSS
does because it just can create a bunch
of nodes and then see how their styling
gets changed right so
it's a bit it's a bit wacky JavaScript
is actually my favorite sort of example
of how the same origin policy kind of
struggles to maintain any type of
intellectual consistency so the idea
here is that if you do a cross origin
fetch of JavaScript that is allowed you
can allow that external Javascript to
execute in the context of your own page
you cannot however look at the source
code for it right so if you have you
know a script tag source equals
something outside your domain then when
that Source gets executed you can call
functions in it but you can't actually
look at the JavaScript source code in it
you know okay fine so that seems very
nice however there are a bunch of holes
of this so for example um JavaScript is
a dynamic scripting language and
functions are first class objects so for
any function f you can just call f.2
string and that will give you the source
code for the function and people do this
all the time to do things like uh
Implement Dynamic rewriting and stuff
like that so even though the same origin
policy doesn't allow you to directly
look at the contents of the script tag
itself you can just call this for any
public function that external script has
given you and just get the source code
like that right another thing you could
imagine doing is you could just get your
home server from your domain to just
fetch the source code for you and then
just send it back to you right so oops I
mean you essentially just ask your Home
Server to run W gets then you get the
source code that way way okay so that's
kind of goofy so long story short the
the the same origin policies here are a
bit odd
yeah is to prevent the
usering
because get to you yeah
seron
have that is true although in practice a
lot of times the raw source code itself
is not user tailored in practice but
you're but you're right that it will
prevent um sort of cookie Medi attacks
like that modul some of the cookie
stealing attacks we'll talk about later
but that's exactly correct um so anyway
so because it's actually pretty easy for
users and uh applications to get
JavaScript Source Code A lot of times
JavaScript source code when it's
deployed it's actually obusca and
minified so if you've ever sort of tried
to look and see how a web page works if
you look at the source sometimes people
will do things like remove all the Whit
space right they will also like change
all the variable names to be super short
and have like all these exclamation
marks looks like characters cursing in
the cartoons right uh and so that's sort
of like a cheap form of like digital
Rights Management but I mean it's it's
all ultimately uh you know a bit of a a
crapshoot because you can do things like
you know execute that code in your own
browser see what it does you know sniff
the network see who it talks to so on
and so forth but that's basically the
the uh same origin story for JavaScript
um plugins yeah I was the impression
that like the reason you do that is like
the short variable name is just you know
so that so that is also a reason they do
that too that's a good point um but
there are uh I mean if you type into the
internet you know sort of uh web page
opusc or stuff like that people often
try to somehow bake some type of secrets
into either their HTML or their
JavaScript you know maybe they want to
obscure the protocol for example that
the client uses to talk to the server so
people will also do the uh obfuscation
for that reason pure minification in
other words just making the variable
name small um and removing the wies
space yeah that's just to uh save uh
download Banner download
time okay so that's a story for
JavaScript um there's also uh plugins so
this is stuff like uh javva and things
like this so frame can basically run a
plug-in from any origin uh now plugins
depending on who you believe are
actually going the way to the dinosaurs
right because a lot of the new HTML 5
features like the video tag and things
like this can actually do stuff that you
used to only be able to do with a
plug-in like Java so it's not clear how
much longer these things are going to be
around okay so any
questions okay so remember that uh when
the browser generates an HTP request it
automatically includes the relevant
cookies in that request so what happens
if uh malicious site generates um a URL
that looks like this so so for example
it creates a new frame a new child frame
it sets that URL to
bank.com and then it actually tries to
uh mimic what the browser would do if
there was going to be a transfer of
money between the user and someone
else right so in this
URL in this Frame that the attacker is
trying to create it tries invoke this
transfer command here it's saying 500
bucks and that should go to the
attacker's account at the bank right now
the attacker page which the users
visited because somehow the attacker has
lured the visitor to go
there what's interesting about this is
that even though the attacker page won't
be able to see the contents of this
child frame right because it's probably
going to be in a different
origin the bank.com page will still do
what the attacker wants right because
the browser is going to transfer all the
user's cookies with this request it's
going to look at this command here and
say oh the user must have somehow asked
me to transfer 500 bucks to this
mysteriously named individual named
attacker okay I'll do it right seems
reasonable so that's a problem that the
reason this attack works is because
essentially uh the attacker can figure
out deterministically what this command
should look like right there's no
Randomness in this command here so
essentially what the attacker can do do
is try this on you know his or her own
bank account figure out this protocol
and then just you know somehow Force the
uh user browser to execute this on the
attacker's behalf so this is what's
called a uh a
cross-site request
forgery and so sometimes you hear this
uh called uh
curf uh CS uh RF
and so the solution to fixing uh this
attack here is that you actually just
need to include some Randomness in this
URL that's generated a type of
Randomness that the attacker can't guess
statically so for example you can
imagine that
um inside
uh the bank's web page it's going to
have some form right the form is the
thing which actually generates a request
like this so maybe the uh action of that
form is
transfer.
CGI and then inside this form you're
going to have an input inputs are
usually used to get in um user input
like text uh key presses Mouse clicks
stuff like that but we can actually give
this input a type of hidden which means
that it's not shown to the
user and then we can give it this
attribute uh we'll call it um
Cerf and then we'll give it some random
value you know a 72f whatever right and
so remember this is generated on the
server side right so when the when the
when the user goes to this page on the
server side it somehow generates this
random token here right and embeds that
in the HTML that the user receives so
when the user submits this form then
this URL that we have up here we'll
actually have this uh this extra thing
up
here which is the
uh this token
here right and so what this does is that
this now means that the attacker would
have to be able to guess the particular
random token that the server had
generated for the user each time the
user had gone to the page right so if
you have a significant if you have a
sufficient Randomness here the attacker
can't just forge one of these things
because the attacker guesses the wrong
uh token then the server will just
reject the request why should these
values be ined in the
URL body of Hest and US
htps yeah yeah so htps helps with a lot
of these things right and there's
actually no intrinsic reason why you
couldn't uh put some of this stuff in
like the body of the request I you know
there's like some Legacy reasons why
forms sort of work like this but you're
correct that in practice you could put
that information somewhere else in the
HP request but note that just moving
that information for example to the body
of the request there there's still a
challenge there potentially right
because if there's uh something there
that the attacker can guess then the
attacker may still be able to somehow
conjure up uh that URL for example by
making an XML HTP request and then
explicitly setting the body to this
thing that the attacker knows how to
guess if the attacker just gives you a a
a URL that just gets encoded in the in
the header of the request not the a if
the attacker just gives you a URL um so
if you if you're just setting a frame to
a URL right then basically that's all
that the attacker can control right but
if you're using an XML HTP request if
somehow the attacker can generate one of
those then XML HTTP interface actually
allows you to set the
body XML H request would be Li by same
origin but the attacker could just write
a form and submit
it using post and then it's sent in the
body but still that's right so so xmlb
request is limited uh to the same origin
however if for example the attacker can
maybe you know do something like this
for example right then the attacker
could inject the XML HB request here
which would then execute with the
authority of the embedded
page can the attacker gets the Rand
value by inspecting
the ah yes that's actually a good
question right so it depends on what the
attacker has access to if the attacker
for example by doing something goofy
like that can actually uh access this
JavaScript property called
um inter HTML this is a property of all
Dom noes right so if I call like um you
know document.body doin HTML I will get
all of the HTML that's inside that page
right now so yeah so if the attacker can
do this then yeah then you're in trouble
that's right so a lot of these details
though depend on exactly what the
attacker can and can't do right which
kind of makes sense right so if the
attacker can or cannot generate Ajax
request that means one thing the
attacker can or cannot look at the raw
HTML that means another thing so on and
so
forth all right so so yeah so this this
token based thing is sort of a pop way
to get around these uh these C surf
attacks uh all right so another thing we
can look
at are um Network addresses
and so this gets into some of the
conversations we've been having about
you know who the attacker can and not
contact via XML HTP request for
example so with the respect to network
addresses uh a frame can send uh HTTP
and htps request to a host plus support
that matches his
origin but no note that the security of
the same origin policy is actually very
tightly tied to the security of the DNS
infrastructure right because all the
same origin policies rules are based
upon what names mean right so if you can
control what names mean you can actually
launch some pretty vicious attacks so an
example of this is uh the
DNS uh rebinding
attack right so in this attack
the goal of the attacker is run uh
attacker controlled
JavaScript uh with the
authority of some victim website you we
just call them victim.com
right so the attacker wants to bust the
same origin policies and somehow run
code that that uh he has written with
the authority of some other site so uh
here's the
approach so the first thing that the
attacker is going to
do is uh register a domain
name so let's say we just call that you
know attacker.com
right very simple to do just pay a
couple of bucks you're ready to go you
own your own domain name and so note
that the attacker is also going to set
up a DNS server to respond to name
resolution requests for things for
objects that reside in attacker.com so
the second thing that has to happen is
that the
user um has to
visit attacker.com
in particular the the user has to visit
some website that hangs off of this
domain name right this part is actually
not tricky right so you can create an ad
campaign you know free iPad everybody
wants a free iPad even though nobody
know everyone who's ever want a free
iPad they click on this they're there
right send a fishing email so on so
forth this part's not hard right so
what's going to happen so this is
actually going to uh uh cause the
browser to
generate a DNS
request to attacker.com
right because this page has some objects
that refer to some uh some objects that
live in attacker.com the browser is
going to say I've never seen this domain
before let me see a DNS res let me send
the DNS resolution request to
attacker.com right so what's going to
end up happening is that the attacker's
DNS server is going to respond to that
request right but it's going to respond
with the DNS uh result that has a very
short time deliver live okay meaning
that it's the browser will think that
it's only valid for a very short period
of time before it has to go out and
revalidate that
okay so uh so in other words
attacker the attack or
response has a small TTL
okay fine so the user gets the response
back the uh malicious website is now
running on the user's side meanwhile
while the user is interacting with the
site the
attacker is going to configure the DNS
server that he controls the attacker is
going to
bind the attacker.com
name to uh victim.com IP
address right so what that means is that
now if the user's browser asks for a
domain name resolution for something
that resides in attacker.com it's
actually going to get some internal
address um to victim.com right this is
actually very subtle now why can the
attacker DNS resolver do that because
the attacker configures it to do so
right there the attacker's DNS server
does not have to consult victim.com to
do this rebinding right so perhaps you
can see sort of the outline of the
attack now so what will happen is that
um the
website wants to uh fetch a new
object via let's say uh via
Ajax right and it thinks that that Ajax
request is going to go to attacker.com
somewhere externally but this Ajax
request uh actually
goes to victim.com
right and the reason why that's bad is
because now we've got this code on the
client side that resides on the uh
attacker.com web page right that's
actually accessing now data that is from
a different origin from victim.com
right and so once this step of the
attack completes then the attacker.com
web page can you know send that content
back to the server using cores or do
other things like that right so does
this attack make
sense would it be more
to toap
victim. toap that way your same origin
as VI get
cookies yeah so that would work too as
well so so so what's nice about um this
though is that presumably uh this allows
you to do nice things like Port scanning
and stuff like that I mean your your
approach will work right but I think
here the the reason why you
do uh because essentially you can do
things like uh constantly rebind what
attacker.com points to to different
machine names and different ports inside
of uh victim.com Network right so then
you can sort of Step through so so in
other words let's say that the
attacker.com web page always thinks it's
going to um you know attacker just what
to say it's just going to attacker.com
and
issuing an Ajax request there so every
time uh the DNS server rebinds it can
set this to some different IP address
inside of victim.com network right so it
can just sort of Step through the IP
addresses one by one and see if
anybody's responding to those
requests but the the client you're
attacking doesn't necessarily have
inside uh so what this attack typically
assumes is that there are certain
firewall rules that would prevent
attacker.com from outside the network
from actually looking through each one
of the IP addresses inside a victim.com
however if you're inside corpet if
you're inside the corporate firewall
let's say then machines often do have
the ability to sort of contract contract
contact arbitrary machines yeah yeah
exactly exactly
https ah so that's an interesting
question so https right has these these
keys right and so the way you'd have to
get this to work with htps is if somehow
for example uh if attacker.com
could uh let me think about
this yeah it's interesting because
presumably if you're using htps then
when you sent out
this Ajax request the victim machine
wouldn't have the attacker htps keys
right so the the cryptography would fail
somehow right so I think htps would stop
that I
think victim only has things on
HTT yeah so so I think that that would
that stop
it if you configure detector a c name
record with the brows the initial or the
C
resol the uh that's a good question I'm
actually not sure about that so it
actually a lot of these attacks will
depend on the devil in the details right
so I'm not actually sure how that would
work um the it would use the first
domain
okay yep why can't the attacker respond
with the victim's IP address in the
first
place so why can't uh what do you mean
does the attack being as
Ser
attack oh well yeah so so the attacker
has to somehow get its own code on the
victim machine first before it can then
start doing this nonsense where it's
looking inside the network so's that
initial step where it has to put that
code on the victim's
machine all right so so this just the
time let's keep moving forward though
but come see me uh after class if you
want to uh pull up the question uh so uh
all right so that's the DNS rebinding
attack so how can you um fix this so one
way you can fix it is so that you modify
your client side DNS resolvers so that
external host names can never resolve to
internal IP addresses right it's kind of
goofy that someone outside of your
network should be able to create a DNS
binding for something inside of your
network so that's kind of the most
straightforward solution you could also
imagine that uh the browser could do
something called DNS pinning whereby if
it receives a DNS resolution record then
it will always treat that record as
valid for let's say 30 minutes
regardless of whether it has a short TTL
set inside of it so that also prevents
the attack as well that solution is a
little bit tricky because there are some
sites that actually intentionally use
Dynamic DNS to do things like load
balancing and stuff like that so the
first solution is probably the better
one uh okay so here is sort of a fun
attack so we've talked about a lot of
uh resources that the origin protects
the same origin policy protect so what
about
pixels so how does the same origin
policy protect pixels well as it turns
out uh pixels don't really have an
origin so each frame gets its own little
bounding box right just a square
basically and so a frame can draw
wherever it wants on that square right
so this is actually a problem because
what this means is that a parent frame
can draw a top of its child frame right
so this can lead to some very in cious
attack so let's say that the
attacker creates uh some
page and let's say uh inside of that
page the attacker says you know click
to when the
iPad the very standard thing so this is
the parent frame now what the parent
frame can do is actually create a child
frame right that is actually the uh face
like button
frame right so Facebook uh allows you to
you know run this little piece of
Facebook code you can put on your page
you know if the user clicks like then
that means that it'll go on Facebook and
say hey the users like this particular
page so you know we've got this this
child frame over here
uh that actually turned out remarkably
well anyway so uh so you've got this uh
like thing over here now what the
attacker can do is
actually overlay this frame on top of
the clip to get the free iPad and also
make this invisible right so CSS lets
you do that right so what's going to
happen as we've already established
everybody wants a free iPad so the user
going to go to this site click on this
thing this area of the screen right
thinking that they're going to click
here and get the free iPad but in
reality they're clicking the like button
that they can't see that's invisible
that's like layer at top the c Index
right and so what that means is that now
you know maybe they go check their
Facebook profile and they've liked
attacker.com you know and they don't
remember how that happened right so this
is actually called a clickjacking attack
cuz you can imagine you can do all kinds
of evil things here so you can imagine
like if there was a you could steal
passwords this way you could get raw
input I mean it's just it's Madness
right so once again this this happens
because um the parent ESS ually gets the
right to draw over anything that's
inside of its bounding box right so is
that a attack makes
sense
yeah do you
mean so so basic so so what I'm trying
to indicate here um is that visually
speaking like what the user just sees is
this okay that's the parent yeah this is
the parent friend that's right this is
the child friend so visually speaking
the user just sees this but using the
miracle of my DCI style drawing
techniques this is actually overlay at
top this transparently right and so
that's the child frame that's the parent
frame okay so there's a couple different
solutions you can imagine for solving
this um the first solution is to
uh use a frame busting
code so you can actually use uh
JavaScript Expressions to figure out if
you have been put into a frame
that by someone else so like one of
these tests is you compare the reference
uh
self to
top so in the JavaScript World self
refers to the frame that you yourself
are in top refers to the frame at the
top of the frame hierarchy right so if
you do this test and you find out that
self is not equal to top then you
realize that you are a child frame and
then you can refuse to load or do things
like this so This in fact is what happen
if you try to create a frame for let's
say CNN.com you can actually look in the
JavaScript source and see that it does
this test right because CNN.com doesn't
want other people taking credit for its
content so it only wants to be the top
most frame so that's one solution you
can use here um the other solution that
you can use here is also to have your
web server um send this HTTP response
header called x-frame
options right so when the web server
returns a response it can set this
header and it can basically say hey
browser do not allow anyone to put my
content inside of a frame and so that
allows for the browser to do the
enforcement so that's uh pretty
straightforward so there's a bunch of
other um sort of crazy attacks that you
can launch um here's another one that's
actually pretty funny so as I was
mentioning before um the fact that we're
now living in a web that's
internationalized actually means that uh
there's all these issues that come up
involving naming and how you represent
host names so for example let's say that
you see this letter right here right so
what does this look like this look like
a c right but is this a c in asy in the
Latin alphabet or is this a c in
cilic hard to say right and so you can
end up having these really strange
attacks right where attackers will
register you know a domain name like you
know cats.com for example but this is a
cerlic
seat right and so users will go this
domain right they might click on or
whatever thinking they're going to you
know Latin alphabet C right cats.com but
instead they're going to an attacker one
right and then all kinds of Madness can
happen from there as well right and so
you might have heard of attacks like
this or like typo squatting attacks
where where people register for names
like
um like fce
book.com right this is a common like
fumble finger typing for facebook.com
and so you know if you control this
you're going to get a ton of traffic
from people who think they're going to
facebook.com right and so there's a
bunch of different sort of wacky attacks
that you can launch through uh the
domain registry system um that are sort
of tricky to defend from first
principles because how are you going to
prevent users from mistyping things for
example or how would the browser
indicate to the user like hey this is
cerlic is the browser going to alert the
user every time cerlic fonts are
included that's going to make people
angry if they actually use cerlic as
their native font right so it's not
quite clear you know technologically
speaking how we deal with some of those
issues so um yeah there's a bunch of
other sort of security issues that are
very subtle here um one thing that's
interesting is you know if you look at
plugins so how do plugins treat the same
origin policy well plugins often have
very subtle sort of incompatibilities
with the rest of the browser with
respect to the same origin so for
example if you look at a Java plugin
so Java often times assumes that uh
different host names that have the same
IP address actually have the same origin
right that's actually a pretty big
deviation from the standard
interpretation of the same origin policy
right because this means that if you
have something like um you know x.y
docomomo the same IP address address
then Java will consider these to be in
the same origin right which is a problem
if for example this site gets owned but
this one doesn't right so there's a
bunch of other sort of corner cases
involving plugins um you can refer to
the tangled web to see some more about
some of those types of
things so the final thing that I want to
discuss you can see the lecture notes
are more examples of you know sort of
crazy attacks that people can launch but
the final thing that I want to discuss
is
um the screen sharing attack right so
HML 5 actually defines this new API by
which a web page can allow all the bits
in its screen to be shared with another
browser or shared with the server right
this seems like a really cool idea
because now I can do collaborative Fu
you know we can sort of collaborate on a
document at the same time and it's
exciting because we live in the future
but what's funny about this is that when
they Design This API and it's a very new
API they apparently didn't think about
same origin policies at all and so what
that means is that you know if you have
some
page that has multiple
frames then any one of these frames if
they are granted permission to take a
screenshot of your of your monitor it
can take an entire screenshot of the
entire thing regardless of what origin
that other content's coming from right
so this is actually a pretty devastating
flaw in the same origin policy right so
there's some pretty obvious fixes you
could think about so for example example
if this person's given uh screenshot
capabilities only let it take a
screenshot of this right not this whole
thing why didn't the browser vendors
implement it like this because there's
such pressure to compete on features and
to innovate on features and to get that
next new thing out there so for example
a lot of the questions that people were
asking uh about this particular lecture
online in pza was like well why couldn't
you do this wouldn't this thing make
more sense it seems like this current
scheme is brain dead wouldn't this other
one be better and the answer is yes
everything yes it's exactly correct
right almost anything would be better
than this I'm ashamed to be associated
with this right but this is what we have
and so what ends up happening is that if
you look at sort of the nuts and bolts
of how web browsers get developed people
are a little bit better about security
now but like with the screen sharing
thing people were so pumped to get this
thing out there they didn't realize that
it's going to leak all the bits on your
screen right and so now we're sort of at
this point with the web where I mean
look at all these things we discussed
today right so if we were going to start
from scratch and come up with a better
security policy you know what fraction
of websites that you have today are
going to actually work like
approximately 0 2% of them right so
users are going to complain this is
another constant story with security
right once you give users a feature it's
often very difficult to claw that back
even if that feature is insecure right
and so uh today we discussed a lot of
different things about the same origin
policy stuff like that and next lecture
we'll go into some more depth about some
of those things we talk about Jango